{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green23\blue24;\red19\green156\blue235;\red67\green10\blue31;
\red134\green19\blue62;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13725\c12157\c12549;\cssrgb\c0\c67843\c93725;\csgenericrgb\c26275\c3922\c12157;
\csgenericrgb\c52549\c7451\c24314;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Another type of multiprocessor system is a 
\b \cf3 clustered system
\b0 \cf2 , which gathers together multiple 
\fs24 CPU
\fs26\fsmilli13333 s. Clustered systems differ from the multiprocessor systems described in Section 1.3.2 in that they are composed of two or more individual systems\'97or nodes\'97joined together. Such systems are considered 
\b \cf3 loosely coupled
\b0 \cf2 . Each node may be a single processor system or a multicore system. We should note that the definition of 
\i\b clustered 
\i0\b0 is not concrete; many commercial packages wrestle to define a clustered system and why one form is better than another.\cf4  \cf5 The generally accepted definition is that clustered computers share storage and are closely linked via a local-area network 
\fs24 LAN 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 (as described in Chapter 17) or a faster interconnect, such as InfinitBand. \cf4  
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Clustering is usually used to provide 
\b \cf3 high-availability 
\b0 \cf2 service\'97that is, service will continue even if one or more systems in the cluster fail. Generally, we obtain high availability by adding a level of redundancy in the system. A layer of cluster software runs on the cluster nodes. Each node can monitor one or more of the others (over the 
\fs24 LAN
\fs26\fsmilli13333 ). If the monitored machine fails, the monitoring machine can take ownership of its storage and restart the applications that were running on the failed machine. The users and clients of the applications see only a brief interruption of service. 
\f1\fs24 \cf6 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Clustering can be structured asymmetrically or symmetrically. In 
\b \cf3 asymmetric clustering
\b0 \cf2 , one machine is in 
\b \cf3 hot-standby mode 
\b0 \cf2 while the other is running the applications. The hot-standby host machine does nothing but monitor the active server. If that server fails, the hot-standby host becomes the active server. In 
\b \cf3 symmetric clustering
\b0 \cf2 , two or more hosts are running applications and are monitoring each other. This structure is obviously more efficient, as it uses all of the available hardware. However it does require that more than one application be available to run. 
\f1\fs24 \cf6 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Since a cluster consists of several computer systems connected via a network, clusters can also be used to provide 
\b \cf3 high-performance computing 
\b0 \cf2 environments. Such systems can supply significantly greater computational power than single-processor or even 
\fs24 SMP 
\fs26\fsmilli13333 systems because they can run an application concurrently on all computers in the cluster. The application must have been written specifically to take advantage of the cluster, however. This involves a technique known as 
\b \cf3 parallelization
\b0 \cf2 , which divides a program into separate components that run in parallel on individual computers in the cluster. Typically, these applications are designed so that once each computing node in the cluster has solved its portion of the problem, the results from all the nodes are combined into a final solution. 
\f1\fs24 \cf6 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Other forms of clusters include parallel clusters and clustering over a wide-area network (
\fs24 WAN
\fs26\fsmilli13333 ) (as described in Chapter 17). Parallel clusters allow multiple hosts to access the same data on shared storage. Because most operating systems lack support for simultaneous data access by multiple hosts, parallel clusters usually require the use of special versions of software and special releases of applications. For example, Oracle Real Application Cluster is a version of Oracle\'92s database that has been designed to run on a parallel cluster. Each machine runs Oracle, and a layer of software tracks access to the shared disk. Each machine has full access to all data in the database. To provide this shared access, the system must also supply access control and locking to ensure that no conflicting operations occur. This function, commonly known as a 
\b \cf3 distributed lock manager \cf2 (
\fs24 \cf3 DLM
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 )
\b0 , is included in some cluster technology. 
\f1\fs24 \cf6 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 Cluster technology is changing rapidly. Some cluster products support dozens of systems in a cluster, as well as clustered nodes that are separated by miles. Many of these improvements are made possible by 
\b \cf3 storage-area networks \cf2 (
\fs24 \cf3 SAN
\fs26\fsmilli13333 s\cf2 )
\b0 , as described in Section 10.3.3, which allow many systems to attach to a pool of storage. If the applications and their data are stored on the 
\fs24 SAN
\fs26\fsmilli13333 , then the cluster software can assign the application to run on any host that is attached to the 
\fs24 SAN
\fs26\fsmilli13333 . If the host fails, then any other host can take over. In a database cluster, dozens of hosts can share the same database, greatly increasing performance and reliability. Figure 1.8 depicts the general structure of a clustered system. 
\f1\fs24 \cf6 \
\
}